>> Wooduff: AS UNACCOMPANIED
CHILDREN CONTINUE TO SURGE
ACROSS THE BORDER, PRESIDENT
OBAMA ASKS CONGRESS FOR NEARLY
$4 BILLION DOLLARS IN EMERGENCY
MONEY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
AND I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, A SHARP
ESCALATION IN THE DEADLY
VIOLENCE GRIPPING THE MIDDLE
EAST.
ISRAELI FORCES LAUNCHED MORE
THAN ONE-HUNDRED AIRSTRIKES ON
THE GAZA STRIP TO COUNTER ROCKET
ATTACKS BY HAMAS.
>> Ifill: PLUS, CHICAGO'S
STRUGGLE TO CURB GUN VIOLENCE
AFTER ANOTHER DEADLY WEEKEND.
>> Wooduff: AND, IN INDONESIA, A
HEATED RACE FOR PRESIDENT,
SHOWCASES A NEW BREED OF
POLITICIAN, WHO'S RISEN FROM THE
RANKS OF THE WORKING CLASS.
>> HE THE KIND OF PERSON THAT
YOU'D LIKE TO HAVE A BOWL WITH
ON THE SIDE OF THE STREET.
HE'D BE THE FIRST NOT FROM AN
ELITE BACKGROUND OF MONEY,
BUREAUCRACY OR THE MILITARY.
>> Wooduff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Wooduff: THE POLITICAL
TURMOIL IN AFGHANISTAN DEEPENED
TODAY.
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE ABDULLAH
ABDULLAH DECLARED HE WON LAST
MONTH'S RUNOFF ELECTION.
HE CLAIMED IT WAS WIDESPREAD
FRAUD THAT GAVE FORMER FINANCE
MINISTER ASHRAF GHANI 56% OF THE
VOTE.
AT A KABUL RALLY, THOUSANDS OF
ABDULLAH'S SUPPORTERS TORE DOWN
A BANNER OF CURRENT PRESIDENT
HAMID KARZAI AND DEMANDED
ABDULLAH FORM HIS OWN
PARLIAMENT.
THE CANDIDATE VOWED HE WILL NOT
GIVE IN.
>> ( translated ): THE PEOPLE OF
AFGHANISTAN, YOU HONORED US, YOU
VOTED FOR US, SOME OF YOU LOST.
YOUR BELOVED FAMILIES DURING THE
ELECTION CAMPAIGN.
WE OWE YOU.
I ASSURE YOU ALL THAT I'M READY
TO SACRIFICE MYSELF AND WILL NOT
ACCEPT THE FRAUDULENT
GOVERNMENT.
>> Wooduff: ABDULLAH SPOKE BY
PHONE LAST NIGHT WITH PRESIDENT
OBAMA.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAYS THE
PRESIDENT URGED CALM.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
WARNED ANY ATTEMPT, BY ANYONE,
TO SEIZE POWER COULD JEOPARDIZE
U.S. AID TO AFGHANISTAN.
>> Ifill: IRAQ'S NEW PARLIAMENT,
UNDER PRESSURE TO CHOOSE NEW
NATIONAL LEADERS, HAS MOVED UP
THE DATE OF ITS NEXT SESSION TO
JULY 13.
OFFICIALS INITIALLY SAID THE
SESSION WOULD NOT BEGIN UNTIL
AUGUST, BUT THEY WERE HEAVILY
CRITICIZED FOR TAKING AN
EXTENDED BREAK IN THE FACE OF A
SUNNI INSURGENCY.
>> Wooduff: THE GOVERNMENT IN
UKRAINE TOOK A HARDER LINE TODAY
WITH PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS.
THE DEFENSE MINISTER SAID CEASE-
FIRE TALKS CAN BEGIN ONLY IF THE
REBELS LAY DOWN THEIR ARMS.
OVER THE WEEKEND, UKRAINE'S
MILITARY DROVE SEPARATISTS FROM
THEIR STRONGHOLD IN SLAVIANSK.
THEY RETREATED TO DONETSK,
AMIDST SIGNS OF DIVISIONS AMONG
THE REBELS.
ONE REBEL LEADER SAID TODAY HIS
FIGHTERS ARE READY TO STRIKE
BACK; EVEN AS HE QUESTIONED HOW
MUCH SUPPORT THEY STILL HAVE
FROM MOSCOW.
>> Ifill: RUSSIA IS SAYING THE
U.S. KIDNAPPED A RUSSIAN MAN
ACCUSED OF HACKING STORE
COMPUTERS TO STEAL CREDIT CARD
DATA.
THE SECRET SERVICE SAYS HE'S NOW
IN GUAM, AWAITING A HEARING ON
CHARGES OF BANK FRAUD,
POSSESSING STOLEN CREDIT CARDS
AND IDENTITY THEFT.
MOSCOW SAYS HIS ARREST IN THE
MALDIVES WAS IN VIOLATION OF A
BILATERAL TREATY.
>> Wooduff: A POWERFUL TYPHOON
HIT SOUTHERN JAPAN TODAY, AND
NEARLY 600,000 PEOPLE WERE URGED
TO GET OUT OF IT'S PATH.
THE STORM PASSED THE ISLAND OF
OKINAWA THIS EVENING WITH
SUSTAINED WINDS OF 100 MILES PER
HOUR.
IT KNOCKED OUT POWER TO
THOUSANDS AND SHUT DOWN AIRPORTS
AND OTHER TRANSPORT.
ABOUT 25,000 U.S. TROOPS ARE
BASED AT OKINAWA.
THEY WERE ORDERED TO STAY
INDOORS DURING THE STORM.
>> Ifill: REPUBLICANS WILL HOLD
THEIR 2016 NATIONAL CONVENTION
IN CLEVELAND.
THE PARTY'S SITE SELECTION PANEL
PICKED CLEVELAND OVER DALLAS
TODAY.
THE FULL REPUBLICAN NATIONAL
COMMITTEE IS EXPECTED TO RATIFY
THE CHOICE NEXT MONTH.
THERE'S NO FIRM STATE DATE YET
FOR THE CONVENTION.
DEMOCRATS HAVE NOT YET PICKED
THEIR SITE.
>> Wooduff: LEGAL SALES OF
MARIJUANA BEGAN IN WASHINGTON
STATE TODAY.
AS REPORTERS LOOKED ON, WOULD-BE
BUYERS LINED UP AT A HANDFUL OF
STORES AROUND THE STATE.
UNDER A VOTER-APPROVED LAW, THEY
NO LONGER NEED A MEDICAL EXCUSE
TO PURCHASE POT.
WASHINGTON JOINS COLORADO AS THE
ONLY TWO STATES ALLOWING SALES
OF MARIJUANA FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
>> Ifill: FORD HAS ADDED 100,000
VEHICLES TO THE LONG LIST OF
RECALLS THIS YEAR.
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT INVOLVES
CARS AND S.U.V.'S THAT MAY HAVE
PROBLEMS WITH THE FRONT AXLE.
THEY INCLUDE:
THE 2013 AND 2014 TAURUS, FLEX
AND POLICE  INTERCEPTOR.
AND FORD EDGE AND LINCOLN
M.K.S., M.K.T., AND M.K.X.
VEHICLES MADE SINCE 2012.
>> Wooduff: A SELL-OFF HIT WALL
STREET TODAY, AS INVESTORS
WAITED FOR CORPORATE EARNINGS
REPORT
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 117 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,906.
THE NASDAQ WAS DOWN 60 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,391.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 DROPPED
NEARLY 14, TO 1,963.
>> Ifill: AND IN THE WORLD CUP,
GERMANY STUNNED HOST COUNTRY
BRAZIL, IN A SEMI-FINAL ROUT
SEVEN TO ONE.
THE GERMANS BROKE IT OPEN WITH
FOUR GOALS IN A SIX-MINUTE SPAN
OF THE FIRST HALF.
BRAZIL PLAYED WITHOUT ITS TWO
BEST PLAYERS, ONE HURT, THE
OTHER SUSPENDED.
TOMORROW, THE NETHERLANDS PLAYS
ARGENTINA FOR THE RIGHT TO MEET
GERMANY IN THE CHAMPIONSHIP.
>> Wooduff: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
CONTAINING THE RECENT WAVE OF
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANT CHILDREN;
AIR STRIKES AND ROCKETS LIGHT UP
THE MIDDLE EAST;
CHICAGO FACES ANOTHER ROUND OF
DEADLY SHOOTINGS;
INDONESIA'S POLARIZING
CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT;
AND THE STORY BEHIND BRINGING
"DR. ZHIVAGO" TO THE WORLD.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA IS
REQUESTING $3.7 BILLION IN
EMERGENCY FUNDS FROM CONGRESS TO
DEAL WITH THE INFLUX OF
UNACCOMPANIED MINORS CROSSING
THE SOUTHERN BORDER.
ABOUT HALF THE MONEY WOULD BE
USED ON CARE FOR THE MORE THAN
50,000 CHILDREN WHO HAVE ARRIVED
IN THE U.S. SINCE OCTOBER,
MOSTLY FROM CENTRAL AMERICA.
THE REST WOULD BE SPENT ON
BORDER PATROL AGENTS, ADDITIONAL
IMMIGRATION JUDGES, SURVEILLANCE
AND NEW DETENTION FACILITIES.
WE ARE JOINED NOW BY CECILIA
MUNOZ, DIRECTOR OF THE
PRESIDENT'S DOMESTIC POLICY
COUNCIL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
COULD YOU TELL US WHAT IN THE
PRESIDENT'S PROPOSAL WOULD SLOW
THE FLOW OF IMMIGRANTS?
>> THERE ARE A NUMBER OF
RESOURCES FOR OUR PARTNER
COUNTRIES IN CENTRAL AMERICA TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE DEALING
WITH THE ROOT CAUSES OF THE
MIGRATION THAT WE'RE DISRUPTING
THE SMUGGLING NETWORKS WHICH IS
AN INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT FACTOR
IN THIS MIGRATION AND THAT WE'RE
ACTUALLY HELPING THEM CREATE
CENTERS FOR THE PROCESS OF
PATERATIONF THOSE FOLKS THAT ARE
GOING TO BE RETURNED.
AND THEN WE'RE ALSO, AS YOU
MENTIONED, THINGS LIKE
IMMIGRATION ASYLUM OFFICERS FOR
CLAIMS FROM CHILDREN AND OTHERS
THAT COME FORWARD AND MIGHT
QUALIFY FOR SOME FORM OF RELIEF.
BUT THEN FOR OTHERS THAT HOO ARE
NOT GOING TO QUALIFY FOR RELIEF
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE WE CAN GET
THEM ANSWERS TO THEIR CASES
EXPEDITIOUSLY AND THEY'LL BE
MOVED TO THEIR HOME COUNTRIES IN
COOPERATION WITH THEIR HOME
COUNTRIES.
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING HERE IS
MAKING SURE WE'RE FOCUSING ON
THE SMUGGLING NETWORKS, THAT
WE'RE DEALING WITH THE ROOT
CAUSES AND WE'RE EFFECTIVELY
ABLE TO MANAGE THE MIGRATION
THAT HAS ALREADY REACHED OUR
BORDER.
>> Warner: WHAT WOULD YOU SAY IS
THE ROOT CAUSES?
>> SMUGGLING NETWORKS THAT ARE
ACTIVELY MARKETING TO PEOPLE
FALSEHOOD THAT IF THEY SPEND
MONEY TO PUT THEIR CHILDREN IN
THE HANDS OF TRAFFICKERS AND
MAKE THIS INCREDIBLY DANGEROUS
JOURNEY THAT WHEN THEN GET TO
THE UNITED STATES, THEY WILL BE
ALLOWED -- THEY WILL BE GIVEN
PERMISSION TO STAY PERMANENTLY.
THIS IS INCORRECT.
AND IT IS OBVIOUSLY INFLUENCING
A DECISION THAT PARENTS ARE
MAKING WHICH PUTS THEIR CHILDREN
IN REALLY GREAT DANGER.
SO WE'RE WORKING VERY HARD TO
DISRUPT THOSE NETWORKS BUT ALSO
TO GET ACCURATE INFORMATION TO
PEOPLE WHO ARE MAKING THIS
DECISION TO PUT THEIR KIDS IN
THIS KIND OF DANGER.
>> Ifill: YOU THINK THIS MAY BE
A LITTLE TOO TOUGH BUT IN FACT
YOU'RE PUNISHING THE CHILDREN
THAT ARE TRYING TO ESCAPE AND
SHOULD BE TREATED AS REFUGEES
INSTEAD.
>> WELL, WE'RE MAKING IT AS
CLEAR AS POSSIBLE THAT THOSE WHO
HAVE HUMANITARIAN CLAIMS, WE'RE
GOING TO DO THE BEST POSSIBLE
JOB OF HEARING THOSE CLAIMS,
MAKING SURE THAT WE PROVIDE
RELIEF WHEN IT'S AVAILABLE UNDER
THE LAW TO THOSE WHO MEET THE
STANDARD BUT IT SHOULD ALSO BE
CLEAR THAT CLAIMS ARE VERY HIGH
AND GIVEN THE HIS TRIF THESE
KINDS OF CLAIMS THAT THE
MAJORITY OF THOSE FOLKS COMING
FORWARD WHO ARE ARRIVING IN THE
U.S. ARE UNLIKELY TO QUALIFY FOR
RELIEF.
AND SO WITH OUR RESPONSIBILITY
UNDER THE LAW TO MAKE SURE WE
RETURN FOLKS BUT UNDERSTANDING
ESPECIALLY IN THE CASE OF
CHILDREN THAT WE WILL EITHER BE
DOING THIS IN A WAY THAT DOESN'T
PUT THEM IN ANY FURTHER DANGER,
THAT WE COLLABORATE WITH THEIR
HOME COUNTRIES SO WE DO THIS
PROPERLY.
WE'RE APPROACHING THIS AS A
HUMANITARIAN SITUATION AND YOU
WE HAVE TO MAKE IT CLEAR TO ANY
PARENT WHO MIGHT BE MAKING THE
DISOIGS PUT THEIR HANDS IN
THE -- CHILD IN THE HANDS OF
TRAFFICKERS, THIS IS A DANGEROUS
THING TO DO AND THEY SHOULD NOT
DO IT IF THEY THINK IT'S GOING
TO GIVE THEM STATUS.
>> Ifill: WHAT ARE YOU HOPING TO
SHARE WITH RICK PERRY -- WHAT
SUPPORT ARE YOU TRYING TO GET
FROM HIM FOR THIS PROPOSAL?
>> HE'S INVITED THE GOVERNOR TO
JOIN HIM IN MEETING WITH
ADVOCATES AND LEADERS THAT ARE
LOOKING TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
THE PROBLEM, THAT ARE LOOKING TO
HELP OPEN FACILITY FOR SOME OF
THESE CHILDREN IN TEXAS.
SO HE'S HOPING FOR A BIPARTISAN
CLAPRATION, NOT ONLY WITH THE
GOVERNOR, BUT WITH THE
CONGRESS .
THIS PRESIDENT, AS YOU
MENTIONED, SENT UP A REQUEST FOR
EMERGENCY FUNDS TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE HAVE THE RESOURCES TO
DEAL WITH THIS SITUATION
EFFECTIVELY AND EXPEDITIOUSLY.
WE HAVE PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES OF
THE AISLE TALKING ABOUT HOW
SERIOUS THIS PROBLEM IS.
WE'RE HOPING FOR COOPERATION ON
BOTH SIDES OF THE AISLE AND
ADDRESSING IT.
>> Ifill: SHOULD THE PRESIDENT
BE GOING TO THE BORDER TO SEE
THE CONDITIONS FOR HIMSELF?
>> WELL, THE PRESIDENT IS
FOCUSED AS HE HAS BEEN
THROUGHOUT THIS SITUATION ON
MAKING SURE THAT THE GOVERNMENT
ALL ACROSS THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IS DOING EVERYTHING
THAT WE CAN TO DEAL WITH THE
SITUATION EFFECTIVELY.
SO THAT INCLUDES MAKING SURE
THAT THE VARIOUS AGENCIES OF THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FROM DHS TO
HHS AND THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT
ARE WORKING COLLABATIVELY TO
PROVIDE SHELTER, TO MAKE SURE WE
CAN HANDLE THESE KIDS AS
EXPEDITIOUSLY, TO MAKE SURE
WE'RE DOING WHAT WE OUGHT TO DO
TO DISRUPT THESE SMUGGLING
NETWORKS.
THE PRESIDENT IS FOCUSED ON
WHAT'S GOING TO BE MOST
EFFECTIVE AND HE'S URGING OTHERS
TO DO THE SAME.
>> Ifill: SPEAKER BOEHNER
SUGGESTED THE PRESIDENT SHOULD
BE EMPOWERING THE NATIONAL GUARD
TO GO TO THE BORDER TO HELP WITH
BORDER SECURITY.
WHAT DO YOU SAY TO THAT?
>> WELL, IT'S NOT CLEAR WHAT
KIND OF ROLE THE NATIONAL GUARD
WOULD PLAY.
THE ISSUE IS NOT THAT WE ARE NOT
APPREHENDING PEOPLE.
WE ARE APPREHENDING LARGE
NUMBERS OF PEOPLE.
THE ISSUE IS HAVING THE
FACILITIES TO MANAGE THOSE CASES
PROPERLY, TO MAKE SURE CHILDREN
ARE RECEIVING THE APPROPRIATE
KINDS OF CARE, AND TO MAKE SURE
WE HAVE THE CAPACITY TO SURGE
JUDICIAL RESOURCES OF ASYLUM
OFFICERS TO HEAR HUMANITARIAN
CLAIMS WHERE THEY'RE BEING MADE.
THOSE ARE THINGS THE NATIONAL
GUARD CAN'T DO.
>> Ifill: HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT
THESE CHILDREN WHO YOU ARE NOW
BASICALLY SAYING WILL HAVE TO GO
HOME ONCE THEY'VE GONE THROUGH
THIS JUDICIAL PROCESS, HOW DO
YOU KNOW -- HOW WILL YOU BE ABLE
TO TELL THAT THEY'RE NOT BEING
TRAFFICKED, IN FACT, THAT
THEY'RE NOT REFUGEES?
>> SO THIS IS A PROCESS WHICH
ALREADY EXISTS.
WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE THAT THERE
ARE -- THERE'S REPRESENTATION
FOR THE KIDS, WHICH HAS BEEN A
CHALLENGE.
WE IN FACT ANNOUNCED A NEW
JUSTICE CORPS WHERE WE'RE TRYING
TO RECRUIT VOLUNTEER LAWYERS FOR
THESE KIDS.
WE HAVE TRAINED ASYLUM OFFICERS
WHOSE JOB IT IS TO MAKE SURE
THEY CAN HAVE THESE KIND KINDS F
KFLEGSES IN A WAY THAT MIGHT
HIGHLIGHT THIS KIND OF
HUMANITARIAN CLAIM.
WE NEED MORE OF THOSE OFFICERS.
THAT'S PART OF THE IMMIGRATION
REFORM THAT THE PRESIDENT HAS
BEEN PUSHING FORWARD.
WE HAVE A BACKLOG IMMIGRATION
COURT SYSTEM.
THE IMMIGRATION REFORM INCLUDED
MORE RESOURCES SO WE CAN BRING
MORE JUDGES TO THESE CASES.
WE'RE GOING TO SEARCH THE
RESOURCES THAT WE'VE GOT TO DEAL
WITH THESE INTERESTS AT THE
BORDER BUT WE NEED SOME
COOPERATION IN CONGRESS TO MAKE
SURE WE CAN BRING ADDITIONAL
RESOURCES TO BEAR TO DO THIS
MORE EFFECTIVELY.
>> Ifill: CECILIA MUOZ, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
Ifill: FOR ANOTHER POINT OF
VIEW WE TURN NOW TO REPUBLICAN
CENTER JEFF FLAKE OF ARIZONA, A
MEMBER OF THE SENATE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE.
YOU SIGNED A LETTER RECENTLY,
LATE LAST MONTH IN WHICH YOU
URGED THE GOVERNMENT NOT TO GIVE
SPECIAL TREATMENT TO THESE
CHILDREN COMING ACROSS THE
BORDERS.
DOES THE PRESIDENT'S PROPOSAL,
HIS REQUEST TODAY, DOES IT
SATISFY YOUR CONCERNS?
>> NO, IT DOESN'T.
BUT LET ME FIRST SAY I WROTE A
LETTER WITH SENATOR McCAIN AND
THEN SENATOR FEINSTEIN AND I
WROTE A LETTER ENCOURAGING THE
PRESIDENT AND THE ADMINISTRATION
TO MAKE SURE THAT THOSE -- CLEAR
THAT THOSE WHO ARE COMING NOW,
THESE UNACCOMPANIED MINORS WOULD
BE UNLIKELY TO QUALIFY FOR
DEFERRED ACTION OR ANY
LEGISLATION PROPOSED BY
CONGRESS.
AND I APPLAUD THE PRESIDENT FOR
MAKING THAT STATEMENT AND HIS
ADMINISTRATION.
THE PROBLEM I SEE WITH THIS
PROPOSAL BEFORE CONGRESS IS THE
BULK OF THE MONEY, 1.8 BILLION
OF IT, WILL GO TO THE DEPARTMENT
OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.
THAT'S NOT MONEY THAT GOES TO
DEPORT ANYONE OR TO PROVIDE
BORDER ENFORCEMENT.
THAT'S MONEY TO ACTUALLY SETTLE
THESE CHILDREN WITH FAMILIES OR
A GUARDIAN SOMEWHERE IN THE
COUNTRY.
AND SO AT BEST IT'S A VERY, VERY
MIXED MESSAGE, AND AT WORST,
IT'S TELLING THE CARTELS AND THE
HUMAN SMUGGLERS THAT THE SAME
SITUATION WE HAVE NOW IS GOING
TO CONTINUE AND TO KEEP THE KIDS
COMING.
>> Ifill: LET ME GET THIS
CORRECT.
YOU BELIEVE THAT THAT MONEY IS
GOING TO KEEP THE CHILDREN IN
THE COUNTRY RATHER THAN TO CARE
FOR THEM WHILE THEY'RE HERE
BEFORE THEY ARE RETURNED?
>> WELL, IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT
HHS, THEIR ROLE WHEN THE KIDS
ARE HANDED OFF FROM THE BORDER
PATROL, THEIR ROLE IS TO
ACTUALLY PLACE THOSE CHILDREN IN
THE CARE OF A GUARDIAN OR FAMILY
MEMBER.
AND THEN WHAT THE RECORDS SHOWS
IS THEY'RE TOLD TO APPEAR LATER
IN COURT WHERE THEIR CASE WILL
BE ADJUDICATED.
BUT 90% OF THEM, 90%, DO NOT
THEN SHOW UP IN COURT LATER.
AN WHAT YOU'RE REALLY SAYING
TO THE CARTELS AND THE SMUGGLERS
IS THAT THE SAME SITUATION IS
GOING TO CONTINUE.
NOW, THE ADMINISTRATION MAKES
THE POINT THAT THAT'S A
REQUIREMENT OF THE CURRENT LAW.
THAT'S WHY WE NEED TO CHANGE THE
CURRENT LAW, THE ANTISMUGGLING
LAW PASSED IN 2008 SAYS THAT
CHILDREN FROM CENTRAL AMERICA,
IF YOU'RE IN A NONCONTIGUOUS
COUNTRYTH,  W HENAE TO BE
TREATED DIFFERENTLY.
AND YOU HAVE TO HAVE A DAY IN
COURT WITH THE JUDGE RATHER THAN
BEHANDLED -- BE HANDLED
ADMINISTRATIVELY LIKE WE DO WITH
KIDS FROM MEXICO OR FROM CANADA.
>> Ifill: AND I RECALL
CORRECTLY, IN 2007, WHEN WERE
YOU IN THE HOUSE, YOU OPPOSED
THE ORIGINAL LAW.
>> I SHOULD SAY I OPPOSED IT ON
BUDGET REASONS.
I DIDN'T FORESEE THIS HAPPENING.
BUT CERTAINLY, WE OUGHT TO
CHANGE IT NOW, AND I THINK THE
PRESIDENT INITIALLY SAID THAT IT
DID NEED TO BE CHANGED, AND
PERHAPS BACKED OFF A LITTLE, BUT
WE'VE GOT TO CHANGE THAT
BECAUSE, UNTIL WE DO, AS LONG AS
THESE KIDS ARE PLACED WITH HHS,
HHS DOES NO DUE DILIGENCE.
IT'S NOT THEIR JOB, THEY'LL TELL
YOU.
TO DETERMINE WHO THEY'RE PLACING
THESE KIDS WITH.
ONCE THEY'RE PLACED SOMEWHERE IN
THE COUNTRY, 90% OF THEM DON'T
SHOW UP FOR A COURT DATE.
AND SO THE MESSAGE IS CLEAR,
VERY CLEAR, TO THE CARTELS AND
HUMAN SMUGGLERS AND THE FAMILIES
TO GO AHEAD AND CONTINUE TO SEND
YOUR KIDS HERE, BECAUSE,
ALTHOUGH WE CAN SAY UNTIL WE'RE
BLUE IN THE FACE, MOST OF THEM
WON'T QUALIFY FOR PROGRAMS HERE
IN THE U.S. TO HAVE SOME KIND OF
TREATMENT.
THEY WILL GET TREATMENT --
THEY'LL SIMPLY DISAPPEAR INTO
THE POPULATION.
>> Ifill: SO YOU DON'T BELIEVE
IN ANY WAY THAT CHILDREN SHOULD
BE TREATED DIFFERENTLY.
>> WELL, WHAT I BELIEVE IS
CHILDREN, WHETHER THEY'RE FROM
MEXICO OR WHETHER THEY'RE FROM
HONDURAS OR EL SALVADOR, SHOULD
BE TREATED THE SAME.
THE PROBLEM IS IT'S A LOOPHOLE
IN THE LAW.
WE DIDN'T FORESEE WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN WHEN THIS ANTISMUGGLING
LAW WAS PASSED IN 2008.
AND PEOPLE VERY WISE TO THIS
HAVE TAKEN ADVANTAGE OF THIS LAW
TO GET KIDS INTO THE COUNTRY AND
THEN, KNOWING THAT THEY HAVE TO
APPEAR IN COURT, AND THE COURT
SYSTEM IS SO BACKED UP, AND THAT
I SHOULD POINT OUT THAT THE
MONEY HERE FOR JUDGES IS TO
EXPEDITE THE COURT PROCESS IS
VERY MINIMAL.
I THINK IT'S $50 MILLION
COMPARED TO $1.8 BILLION TO
H.H.S. TO ACTUALLY PLACE THESE
KIDS IN HOMES.
SO IT'S -- THE MESSAGE IS
ACTUALLY QUITE BAD HERE.
>> Ifill: ARE YOU AMONG THE
MEMBERS OF THE SENATE WHO HAS
SUGGESTED THERE SHOULD BE SOME
SORT OF BROADER IMMIGRATION
REFORM, YET YOU'VE ALSO SAID
THAT THERE WILL BE NO APPETITE
FOR THAT IN THE HOUSE, THAT IT
WILL BE NEXT TO ZERO CHANCE OF
THAT HAPPENING THIS YEAR.
GIVEN THAT, DO YOU THINK THERE'S
A CHANCE AT ALL FOR THE HOUSE
AND THE SENATE TO AGREE ON EVEN
THE LEGISLATIVE FIX THAT YOU'RE
SUGGESTING HERE?
>> WELL, I HOPE SO.
AND I'M GLAD YOU MADE THAT
POINT.
I AM A MEMBER OF THE GANG OF
EIGHT.
I BELIEVE IN IMMIGRATION REFORM.
I AGREE WITH THE PRESIDENT THAT
WE NEED IT, AND PART OF THE
PROBLEM HERE IS WE'LL NEVER GET
THERE AS LONG AS THIS CRISIS
PERSISTS.
I DO THINK THERE'S APPETITE IN
THE HOUSE AND IN THE SENATE ON A
BIPARTISAN BASIS TO ACTUALLY FIX
THIS PROBLEM.
AND I SHOULD MENTION, IN 2005,
WE HAD A BIG PROBLEM WITH
SO-CALLED O.T.M., OTHER THAN
MEXICANS COMING, AND LAMPLEY
FROM BRA -- LARGELY FROM BRAZIL.
WE FIND BRAZILIANS, IT'S A
TIGHT-KNIT COMMUNITY, THEY FOUND
THEY COULD EXPLOIT OUR LAW, AND
WHETHER HE A LARGE NUMBER
COMING.
AND SO THERE WAS A PROGRAM
CALLED TEXAS HOLD 'EM ACTUALLY
WHERE THEY CAUGHT THEM ALL,
DIDN'T RELEASE THEM, AND WITHIN
30 DAYS, THE NUMBER OF
BRAZILIANS COMING ACTUALLY
DROPPED BY 50%, AND WITHIN 60
DAYS, IT DROPPED BY 90%.
AND SO WE NEED TO TREAT THIS THE
SAME WAY.
>> Ifill: I GUESS MY -- PARDON
ME.
MY QUESTION WAS WHETHER CONGRESS
HAS THE WILL TO DO ANYTHING LIKE
THAT RIGHT NOW.
>> I DO THINK SO.
THIS IS SUCH A CRISIS.
AND KEEP IN MIND, THIS IS A
HORRIBLE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS.
THESE KIDS ARE BEING PUT IN THE
HANDS OF SMUGGLERS THAT DON'T
HAVE THEIR BEST INTERESTS AT
HEART.
BUT I CAN TELL YOU THAT WE WON'T
STEM THE TIDE UNTIL PEOPLE IN
HONDURAS AND AND
GUATEMALA ACTUALLY SEE A PLANE
COMING BACK WITH CHILDREN ON IT.
AND THOSE PARENTS SAY, I SPENT
$5,000 TO SEND THAT CHILD TO THE
STATES, AND NOW THEY'RE COMING
BACK.
THAT'S WHEN YOU'LL STEM THE
TIED.
THAT'S WHEN -- TIDE.
THAT'S WHEN YOU'LL DO SOMETHING
GOOD ON A HUMANITARIAN BASIS.
WE'VE GOT TO CHANGE THAT LAW
THAT ALLOWS THE LOOPHOLE, THAT
ALLOWS THE CARTELS TO EXPLOIT
THESE CHILDREN.
>> Ifill: SENATOR JEFF FLAKE,
REPUBLICAN OF ARIZONA.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Wooduff: IN THE MIDDLE EAST,
TENSIONS ARE RUNNING EVEN
HIGHER, AS FIGHTING BETWEEN
ISRAEL AND HAMAS INTENSIFIED
AGAIN TODAY.
MILITANT ROCKETS REACHED
ISRAEL'S TWO LARGEST CITIES,
WHILE ISRAELI AIR-STRIKES KILLED
AT LEAST 25 PEOPLE INSIDE GAZA.
>> Wooduff: THERE WAS CHAOS IN
THE STREETS OF GAZA, AS
PALESTINIANS RAN FOR SHELTER
WHILE ISRAELI FORCES BLASTED THE
COASTAL ENCLAVE.
AIR STRIKES AND NAVAL GUNFIRE
SENT PLUMES OF SMOKE BILLOWING
INTO THE SKIES REDUCING HOMES
AND BUILDINGS TO PILES OF
RUBBLE.
THE ISRAELI MILITARY CALLED IT
"OPERATION PROTECTIVE EDGE" AND
RELEASED AERIAL VIDEO SHOWING
THE RESULTS.
ITID
HOMES OF HAMAS MILITANTS WHO
FIRE ROCKETS INTO SOUTHERN
ISRAEL, PLUS CONCEALED LAUNCH
SITES.
PRESIDENT SHIMON PERES SAID HIS
NATION WAS LEFT WITH NO CHOICE
>> THEY ARE SHOOTING AT OUR
CHILDREN, AT OUR MOTHERS, AT OUR
CIVILIANS, WHAT FOR?
WE CANNOT COMPROMISE WITH DEATH.
WE CANNOT COMPROMISE WITH
ROCKETS.
WE CANNOT COMPROMISE WITH THIS
SORT OF BEHAVIOR AND WE SHALL
STOP THEM.
>> Wooduff: THE ISRAELIS SAID
MORE THAN 130 ROCKETS WERE FIRED
FROM GAZA IN THE LAST 24 HOURS.
SOME WERE INTERCEPTED BY
ISRAEL'S "IRON DOME" MISSILE
DEFENSE SYSTEM, INCLUDING
TWO ROCKETS THAT TARGETED TEL
AVIV, THE DEEPEST STRIKE SO FAR.
LATER, AIR RAID SIRENS ALSO
SOUNDED IN JERUSALEM, BUT THE
MILITARY SAID THERRE
CASUALTIES.
THE GOVERNMENT URGED CITIZENS
LIVING NEAR GAZA TO STAY CLOSE
TO BOMB SHELTERS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA APPEALED FOR
PEACE IN A GUEST COLUMN FOR THE
ISRAELI NEWSPAPER, "HAARETZ."
HE WROTE, "ALL PARTIES MUST
PROTECT THE INNOCENT AND ACT
WITH REASONABLENESS AND
RESTRAINT, NOT VENGEANCE AND
RETRIBUTION."
BUT HAMAS WARNED THERE WOULD BE
NO LET-UP.
>> ( translated ):  THE
RESISTANCE IS DEFENDING THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
THE OCCUPATION THREATS AND
CRIMES WILL NOT BREAK OUR WILL.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO DEFEND OUR
PEOPLE AGAINST THESE CRIMES.
WE WARN THE OCCUPATION NOT TO
CONTINUE ITS CRIME AGAINST OUR
PEOPLE.
>> Wooduff: IN TURN, ISRAELI
OFFICIALS WARNED THEIR OFFENSIVE
WILL GO ON UNTIL THE ROCKETS
STOP.
THEY ALSO LEFT OPEN THE
POSSIBILITY OF A GROUND
INVASION.
TANKS AND ARTILLERY HAVE ALREADY
MASSED ALONG THE GAZA BORDER,
AND THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT HAS
AUTHORIZED CALLING UP
40,000 RESERVISTS.
>> Wooduff: A SHORT TIME AGO, I
SPOKE TO JOSEF FEDERMAN, WHO IS
REPORTING FROM JERUSALEM FOR THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
FOR TALKING WITH US
AGAIN.
HOW MUCH HAS TH
IS SITUATION
ESCALATED SINCE YOU TALKED TO
YOU THIS TIME YESTERDAY?
>> WELL, CLEARLY, IT'S A LOT
WORSE.
ISRAEL CARRIED OUT, I THINK,
OVER 150 AIR STRIKES OVERNIGHT
AND THROUGHOUT THE DAY.
HAMAS RESPONDED WITH ABOUT THE
SAME NUMBER OF ROCKETS.
SO THE NUMBER OF ATTACKS ARE
MUCH HIGHER THAN WHAT WE'VE SEEN
IN THE PAST FEW DAYS.
ALSO, THE ROCKETS ARE FLYING
FURTHER THAN WE'VE SEEN
WE HAD AIR SES IN
JERUSALEM TONIGHT.
ALSO TELEAVEEF.
THERE THERE IS DEEPER THAN
ANYTHING THAT'S EVER FLOWN
BEFORE SO ISRAEL'S SORT OF
DEALING WITH UNCHARTED WATERS
RIGHT NOW.
>> Woodruff: DESCRIBE THE SCENE
WHERE YOU ARE IN ISRAEL.
HOW ARE PEOPLE DEALING WITH IT
THERE?
>> YEAH, IT'S A DIFFICULT
SITUATION, I THINK, FOR
EVERYONE.
THE SOUND OF AIR RAID SIRENS,
IT'S A VERY CHILLING EXPERIENCE
TO GO THROUGH.
YOU NEVER REALLY GET USED TO IT,
AND PEOPLE HAVE LEARNED TO STAY
STORE INDOORS OR CLOSE TO
SHELTER, AND YOU SEE THESE
SIRENS GOING OFF AND PEOPLE IN
TEL AVIV AND IN JERUSALEM
RUNNING FOR COVER.
THE SITUATION IN GAZA, OF
COURSE, IS EVEN WORSE WITH AIR
STRIKES.
THERE WERE BUILDINGS THAT WERE
FLATTENED TODAY.
WE'VE SEEN SOME CHILLING SCENES
OF PEOPLE RUNNING AWAY FROM THE
RUINS OF CRUSHED BUILDINGS,
WOMEN HOLDING THEIR SCREAMING
CHILDREN, PEOPLE WITH BLOODY
FACES.
SO IT'S REALLY TERRIFYING, I
THINK, ON BOTH SIDES.
>> Woodruff: WHAT CAN YOU TELL
US ABOUT THE TARGETS ON EACH
SIDE?
CAN YOU TELL WHAT EACH SIDE IS
TRYING TO HIT OR WHO?
>> YEAH, THE HAMAS STRATEGY HAS
ALWAYS BEEN THE ROCKETS THAT
THEY USE ARE NOT GUIDED
MISSILES.
THEY'RE VERY INACCURATE AND THEY
JUST FIRE THEM AND WHEREVER THEY
LAND, THEY LAND.
SO THE IDEA, I THINK, IS MORE TO
JUST STRIKE FEAR INTO PEOPLE'S
HEARTS.
YOU DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY'RE
GOING TO LAND, AND HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE ARE JUST
FORCED TO STAY INDOORS OR TO
STAY VERY CLOSE TO SHELTER.
SO IT'S JUST SCARY BECAUSE OF
THE RANDOM NATURE OF THIS.
IN GAZA, THE AMOUNT OF FORCE,
THE WEAPONS THAT ISRAEL HAS ARE
JUST SO MUCH STRONGER AND THE
AMOUNT OF DAMAGE IT CAN DO IS SO
MUCH STRONGER.
SO I WAS TALKING TO A COLLEAGUE
IN GAZA THIS EVENING.
HE TELLS ME THE STREETS ARE JUST
EMPTY.
THERE PEOPLE ARE TERRIFIED TO GO
OUTDOORS, AND LOTS OF PEOPLE ARE
LEAVING AREAS CLOSE TO THE
BORDER.
THEY'RE FEARING THERE MAY BE A
GROUND INCURSION AND THEY'RE
SEEKING SHELTER WITH RELATIVE
FWRENDSES SORT OF DEEPER INLAND,
HOPINHOPING THAT THEY'RE GOING E
SAFER.
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTIONED THAT
THE ISRAELI FIRE POWER IS SO
MUCH STRONGER THAN THAT OF THE
PALESTINIANS.
QUANTIFY THAT.
WHAT IS THE CAPABILITY OF THE
PALESTINIANS?
AND WHAT'S THE CAPABILITY OF THE
ISRAELI?
>> WELL, THE PALESTINIANS HAVE
THOUSANDS OF ROCKETS, AND YOU
SHOULDN'T DISMISS THE THREAT OF
A ROCKET.
OBVIOUSLY, THEY
WEAPONS.
BUT THE AMOUNT OF EXPLOSIVES
THAT THEY CARRY ARE RELATIVELY
SMALL BY INTERNATIONAL
STANDARDS.
MOST OF THE ROCKETS THEY POSSESS
DO NOT FLY LONG DISTANCES, MAYBE
10 TO 20 MILES INSIDE OF ISRAEL.
BUT HAMAS HAS DEVELOPED VERY
SOPHISTICATED OR INCREASINGLY
SOPHISTICATED WEAPONS THAT NOW
COVER A GOOD CHUNK OF ISRAEL
INCLUDING ISRAEL'S TWO LARGEST
CITIES.
SO YOU HAVE PROBABLY HALF OF THE
COUNTRY'S POPULATION NOW ARE
SUBJECT TO THE THREATS OF THESE
ROCKETS.
AS FOR THE ISRAELI SIDE, ISRAEL
HAS EVERYTHING FROM WARPLANES TO
ATTACK HELICOPTERS TO TANKS TO
ARTILLERY BATTERIES AND VERY
SMISTCATED GUIDED MISSILES,
G.P.S. SYSTEMS, DRONES THAT ARE
BELIEVED TO BE ABLE TO DELIVER
WEAPONS, SO JUST THE AMOUNT OF
FIRE POWER IS JUST A LOT
STRONGER AND THE NUMBER OF
DIRECTIONS THAT ISRAEL CAN FIRE
FROM, INCLUDING NAVAL FORCES AS
WELL.
SO THEY HAVE MANY MORE OPTIONS
THAN JUST THE PAYLOAD THAT THEY
CAN DELIVER IS A LOT LARGER.
>> Woodruff: ARE THERE ANY VOICE
AT THIS POINT URGING RESTRAINT
ON EACH SIDE?
>> SO FAR I HAVE NOT HEARD
ANYTHING ALONG THOSE LINES.
IN FACT, ONE OF THE ISRAEL'S
SENIOR CABINET MINISTERS, THE
MINISTER IN CHARGE OF INTERNAL
HE WAS ON TV THIS MORNING.
HE TOLD THE PUBLIC, YOU HAVE TO
BOW READY FOR LONG CAMPAIGN IN
ISN'T GOING TO TAKE A DAY OR
TWO.
IT'S GOING TO BE LONGER.
HE ALSO SAID THAT THE IDEA OF
THE CEASEFIRE IS OUT OF THE
QUESTION RIGHT NOW.
IT'S NOT EVEN ON THE TABLE.
>> Woodruff: AND WHY IS THAT?
DO YOU -- DOES YOUR REPORTING --
WHAT DO YOU SAY FROM YOUR
REPORTING ABOUT WHY THAT'S THE
THINKING NOW?
>> THE THINKING IS THAT JUST THE
ROCKET FIRE IS SO HEAVY, THERE'S
NO SIGN OF IT STOPPING.
AND THEY BELIEVE THEY HAVE TO
CONTINUE ONCE AND FOR ALL TO
STOP THIS THREAT.
YOU HAVE TO REALIZE, ISRAEL HAS
BEEN DOWN THIS ROAD SEVERAL
TIMES IN THE PAST FIVE OR SIX
YEARS.
THERE WAS A LARGE OFFENSIVE IN
2009.
ANOTHER ONE IN 2012.
AND IT JUST SEEMS THAT WHEN THEY
DO THESE THINGS, IT BRINGS THEM
A YEAR OR TWO OR MAYBE THREE OF
QUIET AND THEN IT'S BACK TO THE
SAME OLD PATTERN.
SO I THINK THERE'S JUST A SENSE
OF EXHAUSTION ON THE ISRAELI
SIDE.
AND THIS TIME THEY WANT TO KIND
OF STAMP IT OUT ONCE AND FOR
ALL.
>> Woodruff: BUT PERHAPS SOME
DIVISION AMONG THE PALESTINIANS?
>> YOU HEAR IT FROM THE
PALESTINIAN PRESIDENT, MAHMOUD
ABBAS WHO IS BASED IN THE WEST
BANK, HE IS NOT IN GAZA, HE'S
CALLING FOR RESTRAINT.
HE HAS ALWAYS BEEN AN OUTSPOKEN
CRITIC OF VIOLENCE.
HE'S ANTIVIOLENCE.
BUT IN GAZA, YOU DON'T HEAR
ANYTHING, AT LEAST PUBLICLY.
THE HAMAS MILITANTS ARE STILL
SPEAKING WITH THE SAME STRONG
LANGUAGE WHERE THEY ARE
COMMITTED TO RESISTANCE AND THEY
SAY THEY'RE GOING TO KEEP UP THE
ROCKET FIRE, WHERE I THINK MAYBE
YOU'LL HEAR SOME OF THE
OPPOSITION'S JUST PRIVATE
VOICES.
LIKE I SAY, WHEN I SPEAK TO
COLLEAGUES AND FRIENDS IN GAZA
AND PEOPLE ARE TERRIFIED
INDOORS, I THINK EVERYBODY WANTS
TO SEE AN END TO THIS PRETTY
QUICKLY.
>> Woodruff: JOSEF FEDERMAN WITH
THE AP REPORTING FROM JERUSALEM.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: CHICAGO IS ONCE AGAIN
IN THE NATIONAL SPOTLIGHT FOR A
LEVEL OF GUN-RELATED VIOLENCE
THAT HAS PUSHED IT'S HOMICIDE
RATE BEYOND NEW YORK AND LOS
ANGELES.
THE CITY HAS MADE SOME PROGRESS
IN CUTTING DOWN THE NUMBER OF
MURDERS, BUT DOZENS OF SHOOTINGS
DURING THE LONG FOURTH OF JULY
WEEKEND HAVE RAISED FRESH
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE CITY'S
EFFORTS TO STEM THE BLOODSHED.
>> Ifill: IT WAS THE MOST
VIOLENT WEEKEND THE NATION'S
THIRD LARGEST CITY HAS SEEN ALL
YEAR.
POLICE SAY AT LEAST 11 PEOPLE
DIED AND 58 PEOPLE WERE INJURED
IN 50 SHOOTINGS OVER ROUGHLY
THREE DAYS.
NEWS ORGANIZATIONS, USING
DIFFERENT TIMES FOR THE START OF
THE WEEKEND, SAY THE NUMBER IS
SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER: AT LEAST
14 DEAD, MORE THAN 80 WOUNDED.
>> IT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
INDEPENDENCE DAY BUT IT'S NOT
INDEPENDENCE FOR PARENTS WHO
LOST THEIR CHILDREN TO GUN
VIOLENCE.
OR ANY OTHER CITIZEN IN THE CITY
OF CHICAGO WHO LOST THEIR LIFE
TO GUN VIOLENCE THIS WEEKEND.
>> Ifill: YESTERDAY, COMMUNITY
LEADERS AND RESIDENTS JOINED
CHICAGO MAYOR RAHM EMANUEL AT AN
ANTI-VIOLENCE VIGIL.
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE WILL SAY
"WHERE WERE THE POLICE, WHAT ARE
THE POLICE DOING?"
AND THAT'S A FAIR QUESTION, BUT
NOT THE ONLY QUESTION.
WHERE ARE THE PARENTS?
WHERE IS THE COMMUNITY?
WHERE ARE THE GUN LAWS, WHERE
ARE THE NATIONAL LEADERS?
>> Ifill: THE SHOOTING DEATHS
OCCURRED MOSTLY ON THE CITY'S
SOUTH AND WEST SIDES, MANY IN
MINORITY NEIGHBORHOODS THAT RANK
AMONG THE POOREST AND THE MOST
VIOLENT IN CHICAGO.
TWO OF THOSE KILLED WERE SHOT BY
POLICE.
SUPERINTENDENT OF POLICE GARRY
MCCARTHY SAID HUNDREDS OF
OFFICERS WERE ON THE STREETS,
BUT THERE ARE JUST TOO MANY
ILLEGAL GUNS.
>> THERE'S A GREATER SANCTION
FOR THE GANG MEMBER TO LOSE THAT
FIREARM, FROM THEIR GANG, THAN
THERE IS TO GO TO JAIL FOR
POSSESSION OF THEIR GUN.
>> Ifill: JUST LAST WEEK,
CHICAGO POLICE  REPORTED THAT,
COMPARED TO THE SAME PERIOD LAST
YEAR, GUN KILLINGS ACTUALLY
DROPPED, BY FIVE PERCENT.
BUT NON-FATAL SHOOTINGS ROSE.
>> Ifill: PARIS SHUTZ OF
W.T.T.W.'S NEWS PROGRAM,
"CHICAGO TONIGHT," HAS BEEN
COVERING THE RESPONSE TO THESE
SHOOTINGS.
HE JOINS ME NOW.
PARIS, GARRY McCARTHY, THE
POLICE SUPERINTENDENT, SAID
TODAY THERE'S GOT TO -- A
TIPPING POINT HAS GOT TO COME,
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IS THIS IT?
>> UH-HMM.
WELL, THIS IS PRETTY TYPICAL,
UNFORTUNATELY, OF SUMMER IN
CHICAGO, AS IT'S WEATHER GETS
WARMER, MORE PEOPLE ARE OUTSIDE,
EVEN IN A DOWN HOMICIDE YEAR
LIKE THIS YEAR, HOMICIDES TEND
TO GO UP.
AND THE FOURTH OF JULY IS
TYPICALLY ONE OF THE WORST
WEEKENDS OF THE YEAR.
IT WAS ABOUT THEME LAST YEAR.
IT WAS ABOUT THE SAME THE YEAR
BEFORE, WHICH SUPERINTENDENT
McCARTHY SAYS IS UNACCEPTABLE,
BECAUSE THEY HAD ACTUALLY PUT
HUNDREDS OF MORE POLICE
OFFICERS, MOST OF THEM ON
OVERTIME, ON THE STREET.
CLEARLY, IT DIDN'T WORK.
BUT THE TIPPING POINT WILL COME,
ACCORDING TO SUPERINTENDENT
McCARTHY, WHEN STATE LEADERS
PASS TOUGHER GUN LAWS,
SPECIFICALLY TOUGHER SENTENCES
ON THOSE CAUGHT WITH ILLEGAL
POSSESSION OF GUNS.
SO FAR THOSE CALLS HAVE GONE
UNANSWERED.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO COME BACK TO
THE LEGISLATIVE OPTIONS IN A
MOMENT.
BUT FIRST I WANT TO ASK YOU
ABOUT THIS PART ABOUT THE GANGS,
THE POINT YOU MADE ABOUT GANGS,
SUPERINTENDENT McCARTHY SAID,
IN WHICH HE SAID THE OPTION FOR
RETALIATION FROM GANGS IS A
BIGGER PENALTY IN THE MINDS OF
SHOOTERS THAN THE IDEA OF GIVING
UP THEIR GUNS OR THE PENALTY OF
DEALING WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT.
IS THAT WHERE THE FOCUS IS NOW
ON GANGS?
>> WELL, THAT GOES BACK TO THE
GUN LECHINGSLATION PIECE --
LEGISLATION PIECE, BECAUSE HE
SAYS THAT A LOT OF THESE OFERNS
ARE -- OFFENDERS ARE CONVICTED
FELONS.
THEY GO TO JAIL BUT THEY DON'T
SERVE A LOT TIME SO THEY MIGHT
BE BACK OUT ON STREETS, IN MANY
CASES, IN SIX MONTHS, AND 93
COMMIT MORE CRIMES.
SO HE'S SAYING THEY GET MORE
GRIEF FROM THEIR FELLOW GANG
MEMBERS ABOUT GIVING UP A GUN
THAN THEY DO FROM THE SITE
BECAUSE OF THOSE STATE LAWS.
>> Ifill: WE ALSO KNOW THERE ARE
A LOT OF POLICE ON STREETS OVER
FOURTH OF JULY WEEKEND.
SOME OF THIS WAS ANTICIPATED.
AND YET THESE NUMBERS STILL WENT
UP.
>> RIGHT.
Ifill: IS THIS BECAUSE
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH POLICE ON THE
STREETS, BECAUSE THEY'RE JUST
INCREASING OVERTIME PAY INSTEAD
OF PUTTING MORE BOOTS ON THE
GROUND AS IT WERE?
>> WELL, OBVIOUSLY, THE POLICE
UNION HAS ARGUED FOR A LONG TIME
THAT THERE AREN'T ENOUGH POLICE
IN THE FORCE.
THERE ARE SEVERAL ALDERMAN IN
CHICAGO CITY COUNCIL THAT HAVE
CALLED FOR 500, 1,000 MORE COPS
ON THE STREET.
BUT BECAUSE OF THE FISCAL
SITUATION IN CHICAGO, THE MAYOR
SAYS HE JUST CAN'T AFFORD A
LARGER POLICE FORCE AND
McCARTHY HAS ADMITTED THAT
THEY HAVE TO MAKE DO WITH WHAT
THEY HAVE.
SO WHAT'S HAPPENED IS OVERTIME
HAS SKYROCKETED SO IN 2013 THEY
BUDGETED
POLICE OVERTIME.
IT CAME IN AT THE END OF THE
YEAR AT MORE THAN FOUR TIMES
THAT.
THEY HAVE CONTINUED THAT
STRATEGY INTO THIS YEAR.
THEY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT ISTHA NOT
A LONG-TERM STRATEGY.
THEY SAY THEY'RE WAITING FOR
SOME OF THESE OTHER POLICIES
LIKE INTELLIGENCE, LIKE SOCIAL
MEDIA EFFORTS, LIKE COMP STAT TO
SORT OF TAKE HOLD SO THEY CAN
SORT OF WASN'T THE POLICE --
WASN'T THE POLICE DEPARTMENT OFF
OVERTIME BECAUSE THAT LEADS TO
QUESTIONS LIKE MORALE AND
FATIGUE.
>> Ifill: IF THE MAYOR IS
SUPERINTENDENT ARE RIGHT, WHERE
ARE THEY COMING FROM?
>> WELL, THEY COME FROM OUTSIDE
OF CHICAGO, BECAUSE UP UNTIL
VERY RECENTLY, YOU COULDN'T SELL
GUNS AND SET UP SHOP IN CHICAGO.
THAT HAS CHANGED.
THEY COME FROM THE SOUTH SUBURBS
OF CHICAGO IN COOK COUNTY.
THEY COME FROM ACROSS THE BORDER
IN INDIANA WHERE CHICAGO LEADERS
AND SUPERINTENDENT McCARTHY
HAVE SAID THAT BACKGROUND CHECKS
THERE DON'T TEND TO BE AS STRICT
AS LEADERS HERE WANT THEM TO BE.
SO -- AND THEY HAVE RECOVERED
THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS AND
THOUSANDS OF ILLEGAL GUNS.
SO CONCEAL CARRY USED TO BE
ILLEGAL IN ILLINOIS.
YOU COULDN'T HAVE GUNS IN
CHICAGO.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN THERE
WEREN'T GUNS PROLIFERATED ALL
AROUND THE CITY.
NOW THE CITY HAS TO CONTEND WITH
A COURT RULING THAT MANDATES
THEM TO ALLOW GUN SALES IN THE
CITY SO THAT'S THE NEXT DEBATE
THEY ACTUALLY JUST PASSED AN
ORDINANCE TO ALLOW GUN SHOPS TO
OPERATE IN A VERY TINY PORTION
OF THE CITY.
THE CONSTITUTIONALITY OF THAT
WILL LIKELY BE CHALLENGED AS
WELL.
>> Ifill: HOW DO YOU KEEP TRACK
OF THESE NUMBERS?
WE KNOW THERE ARE SOME
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT A COUPLE OF
POLICE-INVOLVED SHOOTINGS.
WE KNOW THERE ARE SOME QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHAT COUNTS AS A DOMESTIC
SHOOTING, WHAT COUNTS AS AN
ACCIDENTAL SHOOT, WHAT COUNTS AS
A GANG SHOOTING.
>> SURE.
WELL, OVER THE LONG TERM, OVER
DECADES, HOMICIDES ARE DOWN IN
CHICAGO AS THEY ARE IN NEW YORK
OR L.A.
THEY'RE LESS THAN HALF OF WHAT
THEY WERE IN THE '90s.
BUT YEAR TO YEAR, THEY MAY BE
DOWN TEN.
THEY MAY BE DOWN 20 FROM THE
YEAR BEFORE.
BY LAW, THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
AND THE CORONERER'S OFFICE HAS
TO REPORT EVERY HOMICIDE, BUT
THERE ARE WAYS THAT SOME SAY
THEY FUDGE THOSE NUMBERS.
FOR INSTANCE, IF THERE'S A
MURDER THAT HAPPENS OR HOMICIDE
THAT HAPPENS ON AN EXPRESSWAY IN
CHICAGO, THAT DOESN'T NOT COUNT
TOWARDS THE CITY'S HOMICIDE RATE
BECAUSE THE CITY SAYS, WELL,
THAT OCCURRED ON STATE PROPERTY,
SO WE'RE NOT GOING TO COUNT
THAT.
OR IF IT'S A POLICE OFFICER THAT
SHOT AND KILLED SOMEBODY IN
SELF-DEFENSE, THEY DON'T COUNT
THAT TOWARDS A HOMICIDE RATE.
ALSO, THEY USED TO SAY THERE
WERE "X" NUER OF PEOPLE SHOT
IN THE CITY.
THEY'VE RECLASSIFIED THAT.
NOW THEY SAY THERE ARE "X"
NUMBER OF SHOOTING INCIDENTS.
SO THERE MIGHT BE ONE SHOOTING
INCIDENT WHERE TEN PEOPLE WERE
SHOT.
THEY DON'T SAY TEN PEOPLE WERE
THEY SAY THERE WAS ONE SHOOTING
SHOT.
INCIDENT.
THEY SAY THERE WAS ONE SHOOTING
>> Ifill: THE MAYOR WHAT KIND OF
INCIDENT.
PRESSURE IS ON HIM NOW TO COME
>> Ifill: THE MAYOR WHAT KIND OF
UP WITH A SOLUTION TO THIS?
PRESSURE IS ON HIM NOW TO COME
>> THERE'S ENORMOUS PRESSURE ON
UP WITH A SOLUTION TO THIS?
THE MAYOR.
>> THERE'S ENORMOUS PRESSURE ON
THE MAYOR FACES RE-ELECTION IN
THE MAYOR.
ABOUT A YEAR.
THE MAYOR FACES RE-ELECTION IN
HE HAS TROUBLE IN THE
ABOUT A YEAR.
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY WHERE
HE HAS TROUBLE IN THE
A LOT OF THIS VIOLENCE IS
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY WHERE
HAPPENING.
A LOT OF THIS VIOLENCE IS
IN HIS FIRST YEAR IN OFFICE,
HAPPENING.
HOMICIDES SPIKED TO ABOVE 500.
IN HIS FIRST YEAR IN OFFICE,
THEY SORT OF WENT INTO EMERGENCY
HOMICIDES SPIKED TO ABOVE 500.
MODE AFTER THE MURDER OF
THEY SORT OF WENT INTO EMERGENCY
PENDLETON, WHO IS THAT HIGH
MODE AFTER THE MURDER OF
SCHOOL STUDENT WHO HAD MARCHED
PENDLETON, WHO IS THAT HIGH
IN THE PRESIDENT'S INAUGUSTRA
SCHOOL STUDENT WHO HAD MARCHED
JUST A WEEK PRIOR.
IN THE PRESIDENT'S INAUGUSTRA
AND THAT'S WHEN THIS SORT OF
JUST A WEEK PRIOR.
JOAN TIME POLICE STRATEGY WENT
AND THAT'S WHEN THIS SORT OF
INTO EFFECT.
JOAN TIME POLICE STRATEGY WENT
YOU DID SEE HOMICIDES DIP RIGHT
INTO EFFECT.
AWAY.
YOU DID SEE HOMICIDES DIP RIGHT
BUT THEY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IS NOT
AWAY.
A LONG-TERM STRATEGY.
BUT THEY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IS NOT
THE PRESSURE IS ON THE MAYOR
A LONG-TERM STRATEGY.
EVERY TIME A WEEKEND LIKE THIS
THE PRESSURE IS ON THE MAYOR
HAPPENS.
EVERY TIME A WEEKEND LIKE THIS
THE MAYOR HAS A SIGNIFICANT WAR
HAPPENS.
CHEST.
THE MAYOR HAS A SIGNIFICANT WAR
HE HAS A LOT OF MONEY.
CHEST.
HE IS VERY UNPOPULAR IN THE
HE HAS A LOT OF MONEY.
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY BUT
HE IS VERY UNPOPULAR IN THE
MOST OBSERVERS SAY THAT WOULDN'T
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY BUT
BE ENOUGH TO PREVENT HIS
MOST OBSERVERS SAY THAT WOULDN'T
RE-ELECTION.
BE ENOUGH TO PREVENT HIS
>> Ifill: PARIS SHUTZ OF PARTNER
RE-ELECTION.
W.T.T.W. IN CHICAGO.
>> Ifill: PARIS SHUTZ OF PARTNER
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
W.T.T.W. IN CHICAGO.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Ifill: ACROSS THE
INTERNATIONAL DATELINE, VOTING
HAS JUST STARTED IN INDONESIA'S
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS.
THIS RISING POWER IN EAST ASIA
AND ALLY OF THE UNITED STATES IS
SEEING A VERY HOTLY CONTESTED
RACE THAT WILL DETERMINE THE
FUTURE PATH OF THE WORLD'S
LARGEST MUSLIM COUNTRY.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KIRA KAY
RECENTLY JOINED THE CAMPAIGN
TRAIL AND HAS THIS REPORT ABOUT
A NEW BREED OF INDONESIAN
POLITICIAN.
IT WAS PRODUCED IN PARTNERSHIP
WITH THE BUREAU FOR
INTERNATIONAL REPORTING.
>> Reporter: IT'S A FULL DAY OF
WHISTLE-STOP CAMPAIGNING FOR THE
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE.
MORNING BEGINS WITH A VISIT TO A
GREEN MARKET, WITH THE AREA
FARMERS EAGER TO SHOWCASE THEIR
WARES.
THE CANDIDATE THEN STOPS TO
ADMIRE THE CRAFTSMANSHIP OF
LOCAL TEXTILE WORKERS, A NATURAL
PHOTO-OP.
ACROSS TOWN, IT'S AN AUDIENCE
WITH THE ALL-IMPORTANT TEACHERS'
ASSOCIATION, WITH A PROMISE TO
INVEST IN BOTH PRIMARY AND
SECONDARY EDUCATION NATIONWIDE.
SUCH GRASSROOTS POLITICKING MAY
BE FAMILIAR ON THE STREETS OF
IOWA OR NEW HAMPSHIRE; BUT THIS
IS PALEMBANG INDONESIA.
AND THE CANDIDATE, JOKO WIDODO,
NICKNAMED JOKOWI, IS RUNNING TO
LEAD THIS SOUTHEAST ASIAN
COUNTRY OF 250 MILLION PEOPLE,
THE WORLD'S LARGEST MUSLIM
NATION.
AT A TIME WHEN ISLAM, THE
MILITARY AND DEMOCRACY ARE AT
LOGGERHEADS IN COUNTRIES LIKE
EGYPT AND TURKEY, INDONESIA'S
TRANSITION FROM PAST MILITARY
DICTATORSHIP TO VIBRANT
POLITICAL OPENNESS STANDS OUT.
AND JOKOWI HAS BECOME A ONE-MAN
SYMBOL OF THIS DYNAMIC PROCESS.
>> THE RISE OF JOKOWI IS
EXTRAORDINARY BECAUSE IT
REPRESENTS THE NEW INDONESIA.
>> Reporter: DOUGLAS RAMAGE IS
AN ANALYST WITH BOWER GROUP
ASIA.
>> AND IF HE BECOMES PRESIDENT,
HE'LL BE THE FIRST PRESIDENT IN
INDONESIA'S HISTORY THAT IS NOT
FROM AN ELITE BACKGROUND OF
MONEY, BUREAUCRACY, POLITICAL
PARTIES OR THE MILITARY.
HE DOESN'T LOOK PRESIDENTIAL, HE
DOESN'T SPEAK WITH A
BUREAUCRATIC OR AUTHORITARIAN
KIND OF VOICE.
HE HAS WHAT WE WOULD THINK OF AS
AUTHENTICITY.
WE ASK IN THE UNITED STATES:
WHO'D YOU RATHER GO TO A
BARBECUE WITH?
JOKOWI IS THE KIND OF PERSON
SOMEONE WANTS TO HAVE A BOWL OF
NOODLES WITH ON THE SIDE OF THE
STREET.
>> Reporter: AT TIMES, JOKOWI
DISPLAYS THE AWKWARDNESS OF AN
UNSEASONED NATIONAL CANDIDATE.
BUT EVERYWHERE HE GOES HE ENJOYS
A ROCK-STAR RESPONSE FROM THE
CROWDS, SOMETIMES STARTLING EVEN
THE CANDIDATE HIMSELF.
SUPPORTER JOKO SUPRIYATIN SHOWED
OFF HIS PRIZED CAMPAIGN T-SHIRT:
>> WE LOVE JOKOWI AND WE ARE
PROUD TO HAVE A LEADER LIKE HIM.
THAT'S WHY WE ARE WILLING TO BUY
THE T-SHIRT, TO DONATE OUR MONEY
SO THAT HE CAN BECOME PRESIDENT.
HE SYMBOLIZES HOPE FOR PEOPLE
LIKE US.
>> Reporter: INDONESIAN
DEMOCRACY DIDN'T ALWAYS LOOK SO
CERTAIN.
FOR THREE DECADES THE COUNTRY
WAS RULED BY ANTI-COMMUNIST
STRONG MAN SUHARTO, SUPPORTED BY
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS OF AID FROM
THE UNITED STATES.
BUT FRUSTRATION WITH HIS CORRUPT
LEADERSHIP FINALLY BOILED OVER
ON THE STREETS, WITH STUDENT-LED
PROTESTS TURNING BLOODY BUT
ULTIMATELY CHASING SUHARTO FROM
POWER IN 1998.
EVEN THEN, INDONESIA FACED
TURMOIL: THE ASIAN FINANCIAL
CRISIS WAS IN FULL SWING; THERE
WERE SEPARATIST MOVEMENTS AND
RELIGIOUS CONFLICTS DOTTING THE
ARCHIPELAGO AND A STRING OF
ISLAMIC TERRORIST ATTACKS,
INCLUDING THE 2002 NIGHTCLUB
BOMBINGS IN BALI.
BUT ONE EARLY REFORM HELPED
STABILIZE THE REGION, SAYS
DOUGLAS RAMAGE.
>> INDONESIA USED TO BE ONE OF
THE MOST CENTRALLY ORANIZED
COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD.
IT WAS RUN FROM JAKARTA, THIS
VAST ARCHIPELAGO, HIGHLY
AUTHORITARIAN SYSTEM, RUN FROM
THE CENTER.
LOCAL COMMUNITIES, LOCAL GROUPS,
DIDN'T HAVE ANY RESPONSIBILITY
OR AUTHORITY OVER THEIR OWN
COMMUNITIES AND THEIR LIVES.
SO ONE OF THE STRONGEST DEMANDS
OF THE DEMOCRACY MOVEMENT WAS
ALSO TO DECENTRALIZE; TO PUT
POWER IN THE HANDS OF LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS AND PEOPLE ALL OVER
THE COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: PEOPLE LIKE JOKOWI,
A FURNITURE MAKER FROM THE
CENTRAL INDONESIAN TOWN OF SOLO
WHO GOT TIRED OF THE RED TAPE
AND BRIBES ENTREPRENEURS LIKE
SO HE RAN FOR MAYOR.
>> HE DECIDED HE COULD DO A
BETTER JOB THAN THE OLD, CORRUPT
ELITE RUNNING HIS CITY.
HE RAN, THE PEOPLE LOVED HIM.
AND HE WAS ELECTED ONCE, AND
THEN AGAIN WITH OVER 90% OF THE
VOTE IN A POPULAR ELECTION.
>> Reporter: HIS SUCCESS IN SOLO
BROUGHT HIM NATIONAL ATTENTION
AND IN 2012, HE RAN FOR THE
POWERFUL POSITION OF GOVERNOR OF
JAKARTA, BEATING THE FAVORED
INCUMBENT TO LEAD THE CAPITAL
CITY OF 10 MILLION PEOPLE.
THERE, JOKOWI PERFECTED THE SO-
CALLED "BLUSUKAN", HIS SIGNATURE
HABIT OF DROPPING IN UNANNOUNCED
TO INSPECT THE WORK OF CITY
OFFICIALS, OR STROLLING IN
RUBBER BOOTS TO SIGNAL HIS
ATTENTION TO JAKARTA'S NOTORIOUS
FLOODING PROBLEMS.
TODAY IT IS EASY TO FIND
SUPPORTERS OF JOKOWI AMONG THE
URBAN POOR OF JAKARTA.
AT A HEALTH CLINIC, WE MET SITI
ROKAYAH AND HER 11-YEAR-OLD SON
FAISAL, WHO'D BEEN UP ALL NIGHT
SICK.
LAST YEAR, JAKARTA'S POOR WERE
ISSUED HEALTH CARDS THAT PROVIDE
THEM WITH FREE AND FAST MEDICAL
CARE.
>> IT IS SUCH A CONTRAST FROM
THE OLD PROGRAM.
BACK THEN I NEEDED TO GET
DIFFERENT LETTERS, FROM MY
NEIGHBORHOOD CHIEF AND DISTRICT
CHIEF, JUST TO STATE THAT I'M
POOR.
JOKOWI ALSO HELPED POOR STUDENTS
LIKE MY SON GET UNIFORMS AND
BOOKS.
HE REALLY CHANGED MY LIFE,
ESPECIALLY SINCE I'M A WIDOW AND
HAVE NO INCOME.
>> Reporter: AND NOT FAR FROM
THE CLINIC, RESIDENTS OF THE
PETOGOGAN NEIGHBORHOOD ARE
MOVING INTO NEW HOMES, BUILT
UPHILL FROM THEIR ORIGINAL SLUM
DWELLINGS THAT WERE REGULARLY
RAVAGED BY FLOODING AND SEWAGE.
SITI KADIJIAH AND HER FOUR
CHILDREN ARE PART OF THE PILOT
PROGRAM.
>> JOKOWI CAME HERE AND HE FELT
THAT THE NEIGHBORHOOD WAS TOO
CRAMPED, TOO FILTHY.
HE ALSO SAW HOW THE NEIGHBORHOOD
BELOW GOT FLOODED ALL THE TIME.
SO HE MADE A PLAN TO REFURBISH
THE NEIGHBORHOOD SO IT'S MORE
LIVABLE.
IT WASN'T A VERY LONG PROCESS;
IN LESS THAN A YEAR, THE HOUSES
GOT BUILT.
>> Reporter: BUT EVEN SUCH A
STELLAR RECORD MAY NOT BE ENOUGH
TO LAUNCH A RELATIVE NEWCOMER TO
NATIONAL OFFICE.
JOKOWI ENTERED THE PRESIDENTIAL
RACE WITH A 30 POINT LEAD OVER
OTHER CONTENDERS.
BUT HIS NUMBERS HAVE SLID AS
SOME VOTERS BEGIN TO QUESTION
HIS EXPERIENCE, SAYS DOUGLAS
RAMAGE.
>> RUNNING A COUNTRY OF 250
MILLION PEOPLE IS VERY DIFFERENT
FROM RUNNING A CITY OF A HALF-A-
MILLION, OR EVEN THE CAPITAL
CITY OF 10 MILLION.
AND THE OPPOSITION, I THINK, HAS
QUITE EFFECTIVELY NEGATIVELY
DEFINED HIM AS A NICE MAN, BUT
WHO'S DEVOID OF POLICY SUBSTANCE
AND NOT READY FOR THE NATIONAL
STAGE.
>> Reporter: JOKOWI'S RIVAL FOR
THE PRESIDENCY IS HIS POLAR
OPPOSITE.
PRABOWO SUBIANTO, A FORMER
GENERAL WITH A MILITARISTIC
STYLE THAT INCLUDES UNIFORMS AND
HIGHLY CHOREOGRAPHED STADIUM
RALLIES.
PRABOWO EVOKES INDONESIA'S
STRONG MAN PAST, AND HIS POLL
NUMBERS HAVE BEEN RISING AS
JOKOWI'S HAVE PLUMMETED.
ANDREAS HARSONO IS WITH HUMAN
RIGHTS WATCH.
>> PRABOWO IS DOING A VERY
RIGOROUS CAMPAIGN.
HIS ORGANIZATION IS SOLID, HIS
VOLUNTEERS ARE ALL VERY WELL-
ORGANIZED.
THEY HAVE A LOT OF MONEY.
A LOT OF HIS FORMER MILITARY
COLLEAGUES ARE HELPING HIM IN
ORGANIZING HIS CAMPAIGN; TO BE
COMPARED WITH JOKOWI, WHO ONLY
BUILT HIS CAMPAIGN OVER THE LAST
THREE MONTHS.
>> Reporter: BUT PRABOWO'S
MILITARY HISTORY IS ALSO STAINED
WITH ABUSES, INCLUDING THE
KIDNAPPING AND TORTURE OF
DEMOCRACY ACTIVISTS, FOR WHICH
HE WAS NEVER HELD ACCOUNTABLE.
>> BACK IN 1998, PRABOWO WAS
ACTUALLY TO BE COURT-MARTIALED.
BUT WHEN HE WAS CALLED BY THE
NATIONAL COMMISSION ON HUMAN
RIGHTS, HE MOVED TO JORDAN FOR
TWO YEARS.
AND THEN BECAUSE OF POLITICAL
CONSIDERATIONS, LONG DELAY AND
OF COURSE HE CAME FROM A VERY
PROMINENT FAMILY, IT DID NOT
MATERIALIZE.
>> Reporter: PRABOWO WAS DENIED
A VISA TO THE UNITED STATES
FOLLOWING HIS INVOLVEMENT IN THE
1998 UPHEAVAL.
BUT FOR SOME INDONESIAN VOTERS,
HIS LEADERSHIP SKILLS OUTWEIGH
ANY UNEASE.
>> WE NEED INDONESIA TO BE MORE
KNOWN.
WE HAVE POWER, WE HAVE SOMETHING
TO BE SHOWN.
AND PRABOWO CAN GIVE ALL THAT
INDONESIAN PEOPLE NEED.
EVERYONE HAS MISTAKES, EVERYONE
HAS A PAST.
BUT EVERYONE HAS A FUTURE.
PRABOWO, THAT'S SOMETHING HE'S
DONE IN THE PAST BUT I'M SURE HE
CAN FIX THAT.
>> Reporter: ON THE EVE OF THE
PRESIDENAL TIELECTIONS, THE RACE
IS A DEAD HEAT.
BUT WHETHER OR NOT JOKOWI WINS,
IT IS CLEAR THAT HIS IMPACT ON
INDONESIAN POLITICS WILL BE A
LASTING ONE, AS HE HAS FORGED A
PATH TO THE NATIONAL STAGE FOR A
NEW GENERATION OF LOCAL LEADERS.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
STORY BEHIND THE STORY OF A
WORLD-FAMOUS WORK OF LITERATURE.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT.
>> Brown: WHEN HE FINISHED HIS
NOVEL IN 1956, AUTHORITIES READ
THE TALE OF AN INDIVIDUAL
STRUGGLE AMID THE RUSSIAN
REVOLUTION AND REFUSED TO
PUBLISH IT.
WESTERN INTELLIGENCE AGENCY,
THOUGH, QUICKLY REALIZED ITS
POTENTIAL AS A TOOL OF
PROPAGANDA.
F HOW THE NOVEL
BECAME CAME TO BE PUBLISHED AND
SMUGGLED BACK NOT SOVIET UNION
WITH HELP FROM THE CIA IS TOLD
IN THE NEW BOOK THE "THE ZHIVAGO
AFFAIR."
IT'S COAUTHORED BY PETRA COUVEE
AND JOINING ME NOW PETER FINN,
NATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR AND
FORMER MOSCOW CORRESPONDENT FOR
"THE WASHINGTON POST" AND
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> GREAT TO BE HERE.
Brown: IT'S ALMOST HARD TO
REMEMBER NOW HOW A TIME WHEN A
BOOK COULD HAVE THIS KIND OF
POWER, RIGHT?
PROPAGANDA TOOL.
>> YEAH, POTH THE CIA AND THE
SOVIET AUTHORITIES AND -- WERE
BIG BELIEVERS IN THE POWER OF
LITERATURE TO EFFECT CHANGE,
TO -- IN
RATURE AS A MEANS TO MOLD
SOVIET MAN, TO HELP CREATE THI
NEW SOCIETY, AND THEY EXPECTED
THEIR WRITERS TO PICK THESE
MUSCULAR CHARACTERS IN THE
FACTORIES AND THE FIELDS,
CELEBRATING THE COMMUNIST STATE.
>> Brown: SET THE SCENE FOR US,
BORIS PASTERNAK HIMSELF.
HE WAS ALREADY VERY FAMOUS IN
THE SOVIET UNION.
NOT THE WAY WE THINK OF IT,
RIGHT, BUT A RELATIONSHIP
WITH --
>> NOT AT ALL.
HE WAS REGARDED AS ONE OF THE
GREAT POETS OF THE 20th
CENTURY, ONE OF THE GREAT
RUSSIAN POETS.
HE BECAME INCREASINGLY
DISILLUSIONED WITH THE SOVIET
STATE AND, AFTER THE GREAT
TERROR, HE STARTED WRITING
DOCTOR ZHIVAGO IN 1945.
IT TOOK HIM TEN YEARS.
AND IT WASN'T AN OVERTLY
POLITICAL BOOK, BUT HE REALIZED
THAT HE WAS NOT CELEBRATING THE
REVOLUTION, AND WHEN THE SOVIET
LITERARY BUREAUCRATS CAME TO
READ IT, THAT WAS THEIR BIGGEST
CRITICISM.
>> Brown: THAT'S WHAT I WANT TO
ASK YOU.
WHAT WAS SO DANGEROUS ABOUT
DOCTOR ZHIVAGO, THE BOOK?
A LOT OF PEOPLE REMEMBER THE
MOVIE.
BUT THE WHOLE IDEA THAT IT WAS
EXPLORING OF THIS INDIVIDUAL IN
HIS TIME, WHAT BOTHERED THEM SO?
>> NOTHING HAD BEEN WRITTEN LIKE
THIS BEFORE IN SOVIET SOCIETY.
IT WAS COMPLETELY ORIGINAL AND
IT FAILED TO CELEBRATE THE
REVOLUTION.
IT HAD RELIGIOUS OVERTONES.
IT WAS TEEMING WITH LIFE IN WAYS
THAT WERE ALIEN TO THE SOVIET
AUTHORITIES.
AND THEY JUST COULDN'T ABIDE
IT.
EVERYTHING THAT THEY COULDN'T
ABIDE MADE IT SEEM SO
INTERESTING TO PEOPLE IN THE
WEST WHO HAD NEVER READ THIS
KIND OF LITERATURE COMING OUT OF
RUSSIA.
>> Brown: BUT CI BRITISH AND CIA
INTELLIGENCE OFFICES, THEY WERE
READING NOVELS COMING OUT OF THE
SOVIET UNION.
THEY SAW SOMETHING RIGHT AWAY.
>> YES.
AND WITHIN THE CIA AT THE SOVIET
RUSSIA DIVISION, THERE WERE MANY
FIRST AND SECOND GENERATION
RUSSIANS, THE HEAD OF THE
DIVISION SPOKE RUSSIAN, READ
RUSSIAN, WHEN THEY READ THIS,
THEY WERE HUGELY ENTHUSIASTIC,
AND YOU CAN SEE IT IN THEIR
INTERNAL MEMOS WHERE THEY'RE
TALKING TO ONE ANOTHER AND
SAYING ESSENTIALLY, WOW, THIS IS
AN INCREDIBLE BOOK.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN ANYTHING LIKE
IT.
WE MUST GET IT BACK I
>> Brown: THE MEMOS ARE TRULY
STUNNING TO READ BECAUSE YOU
SORT OF SEE AT THAT MOMENT,
RIGHT?
>> YES, IT'S ALL
CONTEMPORANEOUS.
IT'S ALL THEM REACTING TO THIS
RAHMANU SCRIPT IN RUSSIAN AND
THAT THEY HAD GOTTEN FROM
BRITISH INTELLIGENCE.
>> Brown: ONCE THEY REALIZED
THIS AND THAT'S WHAT YOU
DOCUMENT THROUGH MOST OF THE
BOOK AND SOMEBODY REFER IT AS
KIND OF A STUNT.
IT WAS HOW THEY WERE ABLE TO GET
IT PUBLISHED AND THEN SENT BACK
INTO THE SOVIET UNION BECAUSE
THAT'S THE AUDIENCE THEY WANTED
TO REACH.
>> YES.
THEIR PRIMARY GOAL WAS TO GET
THIS INTO THE HANDS OF SOVIET
CITIZENS AND HOPE THAT EACH
SOVIET CITIZEN WHO GOT THE BOOK
WOULD PASS IT TO A FRIEND AND
THAT PERSON WOULD PASS IT TO
ANOTHER SO THAT THE BOOK WOULD
CIRCULATE WIDELY.
AND IT DID ULTIMATELY CIRCULATE
QUITE WIDELY AMONG THE
INTELLIGENCIA AT LEAST.
AND THE LARGER CONTEXT HERE WAS
THAT OVER THE COURSE OF THE COLD
WAR, THE CIA PUBLISHED A
TRANSLATED, PRINTED AND SENT IN
MILLIONS OF BOOKS AND JOURNALS
ACROSS A WHOLE RANGE OF
SUBJECTS, NOT JUST LITERATURE,
BUT ALSO ART HISTORY,
PSYCHOLOGY, BIOGRAPHY,
ECONOMICS.
>> Brown: AGAIN, A STLE
IDEAS.
>> IT WAS A STRUGGLE OF IDEAS.
Brown: YEAH.
AND IT WAS A HUGE, HUGE
MULTI-DECADE EFFORT THAT COST
TENS OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
>> Brown: THE CIA I GATHER FROM
YOUR WRITING WAS SEEN EARL YES
AND WRITTEN ABOUT A LITTLE BIT.
>> YES, BECAUSE THE FIRST
PRINTING AND THE CIA DID TWO
PRINTINGS, ONE A HARD BACK, ONE
A MINIATURE PAPERBACK.
THE FIRST
OPERATION DID NOT GO SMOOTHLY,
AND THAT IMMEDIATELY LED TO
RUMORS AND SPECULATION ABOUT WHO
WAS BEHIND THIS.
AND THERE WAS SUGGESTIONS FROM
THE VERY BEGINNING THAT THE CIA
WAS INVOLVED, PARTICULARLY
BECAUSE PEOPLE ASSOCIATED
PRINTING WITH RUSSIAN EMIGRES
AND SAW THE HANDS OF THE
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT ANYWHERE
THEY SAW RUSSIAN EMIGRES IN
RUSSIAN EUROPE.
>> Brown: BUT YOU WERE ABLE TO
TELL THE LARGER STORY BECAUSE OF
ALL THESE CLASSIFIED DONEES --
>> YES.
WE WERE ABLE TO TELL THE CIA
PART OF THE STORY WHICH IS PART
OF THE LARGER STORY.
OUR MAIN CHARACTER IS BORIS
PASTERNAK AND HIS BOOK.
YES, THAT WAS OUR GOAL.
IT TOOK SEVERAL YEARS FOR THOSE
RECORDS TO BE DECLASSIFIED BUT
THEY WERE IN THE END.
>> Brown: I KNOW YOU SPENT YEARS
IN MOSCOW YOURSELF AND THAT'S
GAN FOR YOU?
>> YES.
IN MOSCOW, I CAME ACROSS THE
STORY.
I STARTED READING ABOUT
PASTERNAK.
I BECAME COMPLETELY ABSORBED BY
IT.
I THOUGHT IT WAS JUST A
FASCINATING TALE.
AND IT DESERVED A SINGLE
NARRATIVE IN ENGLISH.
I THOUGHT OTHER PEOPLE WOULD
LOVE IT AS WELL.
>> Brown: AND WHAT -- FROM YOUR
YEARS IN RUSSIA AND ALSO
COVERING NATIONAL SECURITY, WHAT
ABOUT THE STORY SURPRISED YOU
MOST OR STUCK WITH YOU THAT MADE
YOU WANT TO TELL?
>> I GUESS IT WAS THE USE OF
SOFT POWER BY THE CIA.
>> Brown: SOFT POWER.
YES.
I WAS FASCINATED BY AND THAT
PART OF THE CIA'S HISTORY AND
THEY HAD MASSIVE PROGRAMS
THROUGHOUT THE COLD WAR THAT
WERE CULTURAL PROGRAMS, NOT ONLY
BOOKS BUT MAGAZINES, SUBSIDIZING
AND THE TOURS OF ORCHESTRAS, ART
EXHIBITIONS, ACADEMIC
CONFERENCES.
THEY WERE INVOLVED IN A WHOLE
RANGE OF ACTIVITIES.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, PETER FINN
IS COAUTHOR WITH PETRA COUVEEEF
THE "THE ZHIVAGO AFFAIR."
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA FORMALLY ASKED
CONGRESS FOR $3.7 BILLION IN
EMERGENCY FUNDS TO COPE WITH THE
SURGE OF CHILDREN CROSSING THE
MEXICAN BORDER.
THE FIGHTING BETWEEN ISRAEL AND
HAMAS WAS THE HEAVIEST SINCE
2012.
THE ISRAELIS BLASTED GAZA WITH
HEAVY AIR STRIKES, WITH
PALESTINIANS REPORTING 25
KILLED.
HAMAS MILITANTS FIRED 160
ROCKETS INTO ISRAEL.
AND SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
>> Wooduff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW ONE PAKISTANI
SCULPTOR USES CHISELS, KNIVES
AND HAMMERS TO
BREAK DOWN TABOOS AND START
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT WOMEN'S
ISSUES THAT ARE OFTEN SILENCED.
SEE HER CREATIONS CARVED FROM
WOOD, AND HEAR ABOUT THE
EXPERIENCES THAT INFLUENCE HER
WORK, ON OUR ART BEAT PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY,
THE BATTLE FOR UKRAINE, AS
SEPARATISTS ARE PINNED DOWN BY
GOVERNMENT FORCES IN THE EAST.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Wooduff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.